hi I'm Kevin VanDam and as a tournament
fisherman one of the things that I've
always been known for is my love for
throwing spinner baits and what I love
about spinner baits is it's such an
efficient tool for all parts of the
water column and really just about any
time of the year what I try to do is
match my spinner bait you know
headweight blade combination to the
fishing situation you know people know
that spinner baits are good around
shallow cover and I love to throw them
there to you know lay downs bushes
shallow grass boat docks things like
that I'm going to throw a lighter
spinner bait with smaller blades and I'm
going to pick a color to match the
clarity of the water you know
brighter colors like chartreuse and
stained water and in clear water like
I'm fishing today up here in northern
New York I'm going to use a more natural
color you know a spinner bait really
imitates a bait fish so what I want to
try to do with it is is pick one that's
going to match the natural forage you
know I've got a blue shad one on right
here this Lakes got a lot of L wives in
it I've got willow blades on it you know
willow blades come through the water a
lot faster I can use a faster retrieve
in clear water situations the biggest
thing with a spinner bait is you've got
to move the bait faster you know if it's
bright light like this you know we got a
nice sunny day I want to make that bait
move fast enough so all the fish see is
that flash and movement of the spinner
bait they don't get too good look at it
in that situation you know if the water
is dirty that's not an issue you know
the stain in the waters helping disguise
the look of that bait for you so you
know in clear water situations pick a
spinner bait that's natural put some
willow blades on it and speed up your
retrieve another thing that I always do
with a spinner bait is I want to make it
hit something in the water if possible
if there's some cover some grass and
wood whatever make that spinner bait
bang into that cover if there's not like
here I'm fishing you know an outside
drop-off like this in deeper water I'm
fishing a heavy spinner bait and I'm
letting it get down a little bit and
then reeling it real fast
during my retrieve I'm going to jerk it
a few times I'm going to twitch it I'm
going to make that bait move erratically
I'm going to make the blade change the
rotation make that skirt flare a little
bit that quick movement like that that
erratic movement out of that bait a lot
of times will trigger that bass that's
just interested in and it was maybe
following your lure and actually
attacking it so make the bait move
erratically and you know any time that
that you're out there on the water a
spinner bait can be a good choice again
what I love about it is it's good
top to bottom I can fish him deep
shallow around cover and everywhere in
between
it's an all-season lure for me and
something that I've got a lot of
confidence in